feat: add CLI guidelines documentation (#237)
endorhq/rover: docs/cli-guidelines.md

# CLI Guidelines

> The main user entrypoint in Rover is the CLI. It allows users to create and manage tasks. Most of the existing commands focuses on working with tasks and their lifecycle. Our CLI should provide relevant information to the user, guiding them to use coding agents, and giving visibility on current tasks.

Author: Good point. Let me add some notes about this later on.

> The main user entrypoint in Rover is the CLI. It allows users to create and manage tasks. Most of the existing commands focuses on working with tasks and their lifecycle. Our CLI should provide relevant information to the user, guiding them to use coding agents, and giving visibility on current tasks.

Author: Updated. I added it to the "tips" section

1. Use short and clear descriptions when they are required
2. Be concise
3. Naming must be consistent across commands, arguments, options, and output
4. Use a friendly tone
5. Prefer conversation over direct questions
6. Avoid overusing emojis. Use them just to highlight relevant information or personalize Rover

## Colors

- Default color (no color): regular text
- Cyan: titles
- Purple: main information. Just a single element per section
- Gray: properties, and less relevant information
- Green: successful responses
- Yellow: ongoing work and warning information
- Red: failed operations and errors

## Commands

To define commands, we clearly distinguish between two levels:

1. **Main commands**: they are part of the default Rover process: initialize Rover in a project, create a task, and merge it. They are located at top level and split into sections
2. **Subcommands**: offers extra functionality, like managing the configuration and workflows

The naming conventions for any command are:

- Main commands and subcommands must be short

> - Main commands refer always to the concept of "task", which it's the top resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Main commands refer always to the concept of "task", which is the top resource
```

- Subcommands must be nouns that represents the resource (config, workflows, etc.). Distinguish between singular and plural depending on the resource
- For main commands and subcommands, prefer to use verbs over nouns.

> - Commands must be consistent across resources. If we want to change it, we should deprecate all at once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Commands must be consistent across resources. If we want to rename or delete a command, we should deprecate all at once
```

  - `new`
  - `list`
  - `inspect`
  - `delete`
  - `update`

### Exceptions

There are some inconsistencies we might change in the future. I will document them here for future reference:

- The `task` command is not consistent. It should be `new` or `create`

### Arguments and options

Arguments and options expand the configuration for each command. They should be clear, concise, and in-context. Some rules to follow:

- Use arguments for the main command input (`<task id>`)
- Use arguments always for mandatory fields (`<task id>`)
- Use optional arguments at the end for information that might be asked later or it's not required to run a certain command (`[task description]`)

> - Use options for any input that change the default command behavior (`--yes`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use options for any input that change the default command behavior (`--yes`). Give a short option as well as a long one when possible (no clashes exist.)
```

  ```
  · ID: 76
  · Title: Update the AGENTS.md file.
  · Description: |
    This is a longer value that might spawn multiple lines.
    We show it using the | decorator on the property name.
  ```

- Independent elements: a list of elements that represents independent entities. For example, a list of files. Here, we use the listing `├──` and `└──` symbols.

  ```
  Iteration Files 1/1
  ├── changes.md
  ├── context.md
  ├── plan.md
  └── summary.md
  ```

- Process: a list of steps that are completed sequentially and have metadata associated to them. For example, the process of creating a task (create branch + worktree, run container, etc.). In this case, we add a title section and a border under it. Then, we show the steps as they are processed following a log format:

  ```
  Run the task in the background
  ------------------------------
  ● 12:30 | Created the rover/task-123jhksdna branch and worktree
  ○ 12:31 | Starting the rover-task-44-1 container
  ```

>   The color of the circle depends on the step status. If it's ongoing, use yellow. If it's done, green for success and red for failure.

Author: It's a pattern I saw in others. We can change yellow with cyan :)

  Processes will be **located at the end of the command output when possible**.

### File content

For file content, we will show the content as a box. The title will be filename. We will use the [`boxen` library](https://github.com/sindresorhus/boxen) for this.

```
┌ context.md ─────┐
│ foo bar foo bar │
└─────────────────┘
```

## Avoid always

These are mandatory rules. Not following them will cause a really bad UX for our users.

> - Do not set the color for regular text. Avoid using `color.white` helpers as they will look bad on light terminals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Do not set the color for regular text. Avoid using `color.white` helpers as they will look bad on light terminals.
- Do not overuse emojis
```
